gravityWaves-notes.md, before:

gravity waves -- compare with other papers

from schaer2002:
"The gravity waves forced by this terrain have two domi-
nating spectral components: a larger-scale hydrostatic
wave that is characterized by deep vertical propagation,
and smaller-scale waves generated by the cosine-shaped
terrain variations and characterized by rapid decay with
height due to nonhydrostatic effects."

compare SLEVE with schaer?  is there much point when n = 1.35?
- for gravity waves, s1=5km, s2=2km in schaer2002
Klemp 2003
- contours every 5e-2 ms^-1
Not directly comparable with Zaengl 2012

w contours
- Hilary says small-scale gravity waves are evanescent

theory
======
in a stable atmosphere, an air parcel that is displaced vertically experiences a buoyancy force that accelerates the parcel back toward its original position

This is the restoring force of internal gravity waves.

waves can be propogating or standing

propogating waves transport energy but not matter

waves have
- a wavenumber, related to wavelength
- phase speed, which is a function of wavenumber
- waves of different lengths, therefore, propogate at different speeds: dispersion relation
- group velocity

with background flow \overline{u}, dispersion relation: \nu = \overline{u}k \pm Nk / | \vect{k} | where \nu=frequency, k=horizontal wavenumber,k=wavenumber vector

assume rossby number is large, coriolis can be neglected

- flow over isolated ridge can be treated as sum of flows over infinite sinusoidal surfaces with different wavelengths

Commit message:

add a few notes from Holton 2003, need more motivation for gravity waves

gravityWaves-notes.md, after:

gravity waves -- compare with other papers

from schaer2002:
"The gravity waves forced by this terrain have two domi-
nating spectral components: a larger-scale hydrostatic
wave that is characterized by deep vertical propagation,
and smaller-scale waves generated by the cosine-shaped
terrain variations and characterized by rapid decay with
height due to nonhydrostatic effects."

compare SLEVE with schaer?  is there much point when n = 1.35?
- for gravity waves, s1=5km, s2=2km in schaer2002
Klemp 2003
- contours every 5e-2 ms^-1
Not directly comparable with Zaengl 2012

w contours
- Hilary says small-scale gravity waves are evanescent

theory
======
When an air parcel is forced to rise over a mountain, it experiences a restoring buoyancy force which can create waves that propagate away from the mountain.  These are known as gravity waves, mountain waves, or lee waves.

2ND FLOOR REFERENCE--551.503-ENC VOL. 1-6
551.5-NAP

- can cause lenticular clouds and rotor clouds
- large-amplitude GW can create clear air turbulence, aviation hazard
- large-amplitude GW can produce strong downslope winds


waves can be propogating or standing

propogating waves transport energy but not matter

waves have
- a wavenumber, related to wavelength
- phase speed, which is a function of wavenumber
- waves of different lengths, therefore, propogate at different speeds: dispersion relation
- group velocity

with background flow \overline{u}, dispersion relation: \nu = \overline{u}k \pm Nk / | \vect{k} | where \nu=frequency, k=horizontal wavenumber,k=wavenumber vector

assume rossby number is large, coriolis can be neglected

- flow over isolated ridge can be treated as sum of flows over infinite sinusoidal surfaces with different wavelengths
